We are now going to demonstrate how to build a binary
RPM package from the source RPM.
First, on a CentOS system and then on an openSUSE system.
Both of which are based on the Red Hat package manager.
So first, we need to obtain the source RPM.
So, we can do that using "yumdownloader" on CentOS.
And we give the "--source" option and just the name of the package,
and I'm just arbitrarily picking "gzip".
And, notice I did not have to be the superuser to do this.
And there it is. It's already been downloaded, it's 732 kilobytes.
And then I only need to type a one-line command.
Once again, I do not have to be root.
"rpmbuild --rebuild", and then I just give the name of the RPM [gzip],
which downloaded to my current directory.
So, this is configuring and compiling, this takes a while.
It's doing the usual "config" program, that's standard for many tarballs.
So, it'll just take a little while, we'll wait.
Now, we'll see when we go to the SUSE system,
we also will not need to be a superuser.
We can do this as an ordinary user.
Once again, everything except the final install step.
So now it is done with its work.
So the question is, where did it put it?
Well, in the student's "home" directory, there is now an "rpmbuild" directory.
And, you'll see there is an "RPMS" directory in there.
Which has an "/x86_64" subdirectory.
And there you see it generated two binary RPMs.
"gzip" I could install, and then there's also a "gzip-debuginfo",
which is useful when you're doing any kind of debugging,
because it contains the entire symbol table for the "gzip" program.
So, let's pause for a second while we fire up the openSUSE virtual machine,
and then do the similar operations there.
We are going to do the similar operation on an openSUSE system.
So, the first thing we have to do is to obtain the source package.
So, we're going to obtain a very simple package called "gup".
And while we could probably find some command line program to do this,
I was not so successful in finding that easily,
so I simply went to the openSUSE website and found where the source was installed.
And here's the complete line I'm using to download it, with "wget".
It's a very small package, and then it's the same kind of command.
All I have to do is say "rpmbuild".
And then I just give the name of a package:
"gup-0.3*", should be there.
I'm sorry, I left out the "--rebuild" option.
There you go.
So, it's doing the same thing as we had before.
And once again, I have an "rpmbuild" subdirectory.
And, if I look in the "RPMS" directory,
I see once again an "x86_64", and there's the RPM that we generated.
Notice that by default on openSUSE, you do not get the debug info.
I have to specify some other options to get that RPM as well.
So basically the operation is the same on both systems.
For neither one do I have to be a superuser.
To generate the binary RPM, I will only need it to install.